Tailor the error message to the target audience. That is:

- Use appropriate terminology for that target audience.
- Be mindful of what the target audience knows and doesn't know.

Beware of the [curse of knowledge](https://developers.google.com/tech-writing/one/audience#curse_of_knowledge) when writing error messages. A term familiar to you might not be familiar to your target audience. For example, the following error message contains terminology appropriate for a target audience of ML experts. If the target audience includes a significant number of people who aren't ML experts, then the error message is mystifying:

Recommended for ML experts only

> Exploding gradient problem. To fix this problem, consider gradient clipping.

Now compare the following two error messages. The first error message contains technical truth, but terms like _server_, _client_, _farm_, and _CPU_ are not going to help most consumers:

Inappropriate for shoppers

> A server dropped your client's request because the server farm is running at 92% CPU capacity. Retry in five minutes.

The second error message is more suitable (and comforting) for a non-technical audience:

Appropriate for shoppers

> So many people are shopping right now that our system can't complete your purchase. Don't worry--we won't lose your shopping cart. Please retry your purchase in five minutes.

### Multiple choice exercise

Which audience(s) is the following error message appropriate for?

- This app does not support JPG files. You may only upload SVG or PNG files.

Software Engineers, System Administrators, and technical end-users

Inappropriate for any audience.

People using an app to upload receipts.