Challenge yourself by answering these five questions.

## Question 1

The following error message is supposed to target non-technical users:

- You entered a bad age (32.6)

If you were reviewing this error message, which replacement error message would you recommend instead?

You entered an age, 32.6, that our software can't process.

The specified age, 32.6, contains a decimal point. Enter an age that doesn't contain a decimal point. For example: 32

The specified age, 32.6, is a floating-point number instead of an integer.

## Question 2

Which one of the following error messages would be best for application programmers?

my_input_stream doesn't exist. Open my_input_stream before calling read_file.

The call read_file(my_input_stream) failed because my_input_stream does not exist. To open a stream for reading, call the open_file function. For example: my_input_stream = open_file("~/.bashrc").

You forgot to open my_input_stream.

## Question 3

What problem do you see in the following error message:

- The file you are attempting to upload is too big (12 MB). Please pick a smaller file and try again.

The error message contains a double negative.

The problem statement is missing the maximum allowable file size.

The error message doesn't provide a solution to the problem.

## Question 4

What problem do you see in the following error message:

- The specified file ('camelia.txt') does not exist. Pick a different datastore and try again.

The error message blames the user.

The error message doesn't specify the problem.

The first sentence and second sentence use different terms for the same kind of object.

The error message is overly apologetic.

## Question 5

Consider the following error message displayed for a consumer appliance:

- Error: Bad checksum. Change the battery in this device.

What error message would be more appropriate for a consumer appliance?

The battery is starting to fail. Replace the battery as soon as possible by following these directions: <_URL of battery replacement documentation_>

The battery is starting to fail. Replace the battery as soon as possible by following these directions:

1. Turn off the device by moving the switch from 1 to 0.  
2. Unlatch the battery case located in the rear of this device.  
...  
10. Turn the device back on by moving the switch from 0 to 1.

Your device has reported a bad checksum. Change the battery in this device.

The error message is fine as is.