Our mission statement is to organize the world's information and make it universally accessible and useful. Take this course to learn how to make your documents more accessible for everyone, including people with disabilities. For example, this courses teaches you how to create documentation and websites for screen reader users.

This course is available in the following two formats:

- Instructor-led, which this page describes.
- [Self-study](https://developers.google.com/tech-writing/accessibility/self-study)

Both formats cover similar, though not identical, content.

## Format of instructor-led format

This format is a 90-minute instructor-led workshop, featuring a lot of student exercises and class discussion.

Google provides all the materials needed to run the in-class sessions at your own organization. If you'd like to facilitate the in-class sessions for your organization, see [Facilitating Technical Writing Courses](https://developers.google.com/tech-writing/for-instructors).

**Note:** Google occasionally provides free, in-class sessions open to the general public. For details, see [Announcements](https://developers.google.com/tech-writing/announcements).

## Target audience

We've aimed this course at the following roles:

- engineers
- product managers and technical program managers
- technical writers
- anyone else who writes or reviews documents

## Learning objectives

After taking this course, you will know how to do the following:

- Learn to design inclusively.
- Write helpful `alt` text for technical diagrams.
- Check color contrast.
- Create accessible diagrams.
- Detect accessibility errors in documents.