When writing about people with disabilities or about accessibility, be mindful about using unintentionally biased language that may cause harm.

## Write thoughtfully about disability

Don't use euphemisms or patronizing terms:

- **Avoid** describing people without disabilities as _normal_ or _healthy_.
- **Better**: _nondisabled person, sighted person, hearing person, person without disabilities, neurotypical person_.
    
- **Avoid** terms that reflect or project feelings and judgements about a person's disability, such as _victim of, suffering from, wheelchair-bound_.
    
- **Better**: _experiencing, living with, uses a wheelchair_
    

## Person-first and identity-first language

When writing about accessibility and people with disabilities, be sure to center the person or community, and avoid terms that remove personhood.

- **Avoid** language like _the disabled_
- **Better**: _people with disabilities_

**Note**: While person-first language is generally preferred (person with a cognitive impairment, person with low vision), some people prefer identity-first language; for example, this preference is common in Deaf and neurodivergent communities (Deaf person, neurodivergent person).

Before writing about a community, take time to educate yourself about how the community prefers to be identified and described. Some helpful resources include the following:

- [Write inclusive documentation](https://developers.google.com/style/inclusive-documentation): General guidelines and examples that illustrate some best practices for writing inclusive documentation.