In this unit, you learn how to edit your own and others' writing to make it more accessible to all users. The unit focuses on ways to write—and edit—your documentation to make it accessible to everyone. This unit is not meant as an exhaustive reference, but it does describe some general best practices for editing documentation to focus on accessibility.

Cultivate an accessibility mindset for doc editing
When you are aware of and focus on the fundamentals of good writing, you also make your documentation more accessible.

With practice, self-editing can help you catch accessibility pitfalls, such as these:

poor or missing headings
uninformative link text
dense, complex text
Create helpful headings
Headings help your audience understand what's in your document. Clear, well-structured document headings simplify navigatation for people with cognitive disabilities and those who use screen readers.

Tag headings with heading elements.
HTML: <h1>, <h2>, <h3> ...
Markdown: #, ##, ### ...
Use a level-1 heading for the page title or main content heading.
Don't skip levels of the heading hierarchy. For example, don't jump from an <h1> to an <h3>.
References:

Headings and titles
Cognitive accessibility design pattern:  Make the site hierarchy easy to understand and navigate
Making content usable for people with cognitive and learning disabilities
Include informative link text
People who use screen readers often use them to scan a page to hear just the links. Use informative link text to ensure that your audience hears meaningful information, not just "Learn more, learn more, learn more."

Avoid:
Learn more
Click here
This document
Good:
Learn how to format tables.
Read about inclusive design.
Bonus: Informative link text also improves search engine optimization.

Reference: Link text

Use straightforward language and short sentences
Other units in this course talk about visual images and how to use them inclusively. Remember that abstract and unfamiliar written representations can also be particularly challenging for users with cognitive or visual impairments.

Avoid unfamiliar jargon, US-based slang, pop-cultural references, and complicated linguistic constructions. Use active voice and short sentences, and define your technical terms on first use if they are not commonly understood.

References:

Active voice
Jargon
Write inclusive documentation
Designs that make use of abstract imagery and metaphors
Exercise: Edit a document
In this exercise, you edit a short document to make it more accessible.

Focus on the order in which the information is presented; place writing tips first. Simplify the wording where possible. You can change anything, but especially look for accessibility pitfalls such as missing or unnecessary headings, uninformative link text, and dense, complex text.

Whenever possible, streamline and simplify the wording. This suggestion isn't accessibility-specific; however, as with many writing tips, good writing is good for accessibility.

Now, make a copy of the following exercise and edit it for accessibility.

A list of reasons why simplifying a document through editing is good
Determine whether or not you can simplify your document through the use of terminology that is equivalent but relatively shorter in length and therefore more easily comprehensible by your audience. It's important to make sure your document is edited before it is seen by your audience, which might include people that are less or more familiar with the matter covered by your document.

Step 1

The first thing you need is a rough draft. Some things that can help make your document easier to read are making sure you have links to background information, and also checking for active voice instead of passive voice. If you have long sentences you can consider shortening them or implementing the use of a list to make the information easier to scan.

Step 2

The second thing you need is a list of resources that will help you edit, like this page.

Also this other one is good,too.

Once you have editing resources to use as you edit, you can use them to edit your document.

Tips for getting started
The title of the exercise is A list of reasons why simplifying a document through editing is good; one approach might be to look for language that could be presented in a bulleted list or lists.

Highlight or otherwise identify phrases that could work as bulleted items. Start to build your bulleted list (or lists). As you do so, look for ways to make complex text simpler by using active voice and short phrases. Revise link text to be informative. Keep list items parallel.

Build your bulleted list
The following table shows how you might begin to break down the longer paragraphs into concise bulleted lists.

Existing text	Possible list items	Edited list items
Paragraph 1: Determine whether or not you can simplify your document through the use of terminology that is equivalent but relatively shorter in length and therefore more easily comprehensible by your audience.	
Determine whether or not you can simplify your document.
Use terminology that is equivalent but relatively shorter in length.
Make sure your material is comprehensible to your audience.
Simplify: Use short sentences.
Check terminology: If you use words that might be unfamiliar to your audience, include definitions.
Note: The second bullet covers this already.
Paragraph 2: It's important to make sure your document is edited before it is seen by your audience, which might include people that are less or more familiar with the matter covered by your document.	
Make sure your document is edited.
Note: You've already addressed the need to know your audience. You can cut this repetitive information.
Edit: Request a review or peer edit from someone who is familiar with your subject matter.
Note: Learn more about creating lists in Tech Writing One.
If you continue breaking down the existing text into possible bulleted items, you can organize and order the items logically, which will make the information easier for your readers to understand and act on.

Click the icon to see a possible answer.

Test your content for accessibility
Finally, to get a feel for some different ways your users might access and consume your document, try these testing tips:

Change the zoom level to help accommodate readers on small screens or full-size monitors.
Use only the keyboard to navigate your document. For example, see Keyboard shortcuts in Chrome.
Use a screen reader:
ChromeVox for ChromeOS
VoiceOver for Mac
These methods can help you assess the usability of your document for different audiences as you edit your own and others' documents for accessibility.

